Okay, now you know the big picture of
steganography as well as the basics
of binary math.
Now it is time to look into
putting all of this together.
Let's suppose you wanted to hide this
top image, which has a secret message
inside of this bottom image,
which is a picture of a galaxy.
You have already seen how to take
the eight bit numbers which represent
one of the color components,
red, green, or blue, and
hide the most significant
bits of one in the other.
You take the most significant bits
from the image you want to show up and
combine them with the most significant
bits of the image you want to hide.
You've already seen this
math to make this work, but
there's a bit more to this than just
doing math on one pair of numbers.
You need to do this math for each pixel.
Iterating through each pixel in an image
should be quite familiar by now.
And you need to do that math for
the red, green, and blue components.
Since you need to do
the same thing three times,
you might think about pulling that
computation out into a function,
allowing you to call the function, rather
than repeating the code for that task.
Speaking of functions,
since this task is a bit more complex,
you might find it useful to break
it down into a couple functions.
We're going to walk you through
a couple functions that we broke
our implementation down into for hiding.
First, we made a function called chop2hide
which is going to take the image
we want to show up in the end and
produce one that looks quite similar.
It is going to do the math on each
color component of each pixel
that keeps the most significant bits and
zeroes out the least significant bits.
The algorithm for this function would
be to iterate over each pixel in
the image and do this math to the red,
green, and blue components.
You want to divide by 16,
take the Math.floor of that result,
then multiply by 16.
You might want to extract this repetitive
math out into its own separate function
then just call it in each place.
The resulting image should look
pretty much the same as the original
as we show here.
If you were implementing, testing, and
debugging this code, breaking it into
small pieces like this would be helpful.
You can check the result of this one piece
and make sure it works before moving on.
The second function you might write would
operate on the image you want to hide.
We call this shift because it will
shift the most significant bits over
into the least significant bit positions.
That is, you would take
a color value like 10110010,
and convert it into 0001011.
The 1011 has been shifted from
the most significant bits to the least
significant bits.
The algorithm for this would be to iterate
over each pixel and set the red, green,
and blue to the Math.floor of
the original value divided by 16.
If you look at the resulting image here,
it would look plain black.
That is actually a great thing
since all the information is in
the least significant bits.
And the most significant bits
are supposed to be all zero.
Again, you could test this
separately before you move on.
The final function, called combine, takes
two images and adds red to red, green
to green, and blue to blue to produce
the color values of the resulting image.
It should look basically
the same as the original image.
Once you have the ideas for
these three functions,
your high level algorithm to hide one
image in another, looks like this.
You just call the functions that we
discussed and they do all the work.
Having seen the algorithms for
each of these functions,
you could translate them into code.
For example,
here is the chop2hide function.
You can see here, where we decided to
pull out the actual math into it's own
helper function and call it for each
of the red, green, and blue components.
The other functions to
hide would be similar.
As we discussed, you iterate
over the pixels of the image and
do the math we previously described.
What about extraction?
How do you get the hidden image back out?
We're going to leave that to you.
You've already seen the math required.
So now, you can use the seven
steps to develop an algorithm and
translate it into code.
Start out with step one and
work on an image with two pixels.
Write down numeric values for
the red, green, and
blue, then extract
the hidden two pixel image.
Once you have done that,
work through steps two,
three, and four to develop your algorithm.
Then translate it into code,
test it, and debug it.
Happy coding!